README.md, before:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-razor

## <a name="description"></a> Description

Chef cookbook to install and manage [Razor][razor_site], a power control,
provisioning, and management application designed to deploy both bare-metal
and virtual computer resources. An LWRP is provided to manage OS and
micro kernel images.

## <a name="usage"></a> Usage

Include `recipe[razor]` in your run\_list to install the Razor service and its
dependencies. If you wish to modify or alter the details of the installation
(i.e. using a different mongodb cookbook, installing nodejs from source, etc.),
then compose a custom run\_list of the child recipes described
[below](#recipes).

## <a name="requirements"></a> Requirements

### <a name="requirements-chef"></a> Chef

Tested on 10.12.0 but newer and older version should work just fine. File an
[issue][issues] if this isn't the case.

### <a name="requirements-platform"></a> Platform

The following platforms have been tested with this cookbook, meaning that the
recipes run on these platforms without error:

* ubuntu (10.04/12.04)

### <a name="requirements-cookbooks"></a> Cookbooks

This cookbook depends on the following external cookbooks:

* [build-essential][build_essential_cb]
* [git][git_cb]
* [tftp][tftp_cb]
* [mongodb][mongodb_cb]
* [nodejs][nodejs_cb]

## <a name="installation"></a> Installation

Depending on the situation and use case there are several ways to install
this cookbook. All the methods listed below assume a tagged version release
is the target, but omit the tags to get the head of development. A valid
Chef repository structure like the [Opscode repo][chef_repo] is also assumed.

### <a name="installation-librarian"></a> Using Librarian-Chef

[Librarian-Chef][librarian] is a bundler for your Chef cookbooks.
Include a reference to the cookbook in a [Cheffile][cheffile] and run
`librarian-chef install`. To install Librarian-Chef:

    gem install librarian
    cd chef-repo
    librarian-chef init

To use the Opscode platform version:

    echo "cookbook 'razor'" >> Cheffile
    librarian-chef install

Or to reference the Git version:

    cat >> Cheffile <<END_OF_CHEFFILE
    cookbook 'razor',
      :git => 'git://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor.git', :ref => 'v0.1.0'
    END_OF_CHEFFILE
    librarian-chef install

### <a name="installation-kgc"></a> Using knife-github-cookbooks

The [knife-github-cookbooks][kgc] gem is a plugin for *knife* that supports
installing cookbooks directly from a GitHub repository. To install with the
plugin:

    gem install knife-github-cookbooks
    cd chef-repo
    knife cookbook github install fnichol/chef-razor/v0.1.0

### <a name="installation-gitsubmodule"></a> As a Git Submodule

A common practice (which is getting dated) is to add cookbooks as Git
submodules. This is accomplishes like so:

    cd chef-repo
    git submodule add git://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor.git cookbooks/razor
    git submodule init && git submodule update

**Note:** the head of development will be linked here, not a tagged release.

### <a name="installation-tarball"></a> As a Tarball

If the cookbook needs to downloaded temporarily just to be uploaded to a Chef
Server or Opscode Hosted Chef, then a tarball installation might fit the bill:

    cd chef-repo/cookbooks
    curl -Ls https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor/tarball/v0.1.0 | tar xfz - && \
      mv fnichol-chef-razor-* razor

### <a name="installation-platform"></a> From the Opscode Community Platform

...coming soon...

## <a name="recipes"></a> Recipes

### <a name="recipes-default"></a> default

Installs the full Razor stack with all dependencies.

Most users will want to use this recipe.

### <a name="recipes-tftp"></a> tftp

Installs a tftp server. This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-tftp-files"></a> tftp_files

Installs files and configuration needed for PXE booting and Razor
bootstraping. This recipe is included in the [default](#recipes-default)
recipe.

### <a name="recipes-mongodb"></a> mongodb

Installs a MongoDB server (from packages). This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-nodejs"></a> nodejs

Installs Node.js and npm (from packages). This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-ruby-from-package"></a> ruby_from_package

Installs Ruby (from system packages) and the Bundler gem. This recipe is
included in the [default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-rubygems-from-source"></a> rubygems_from_source

Installs Rubygems from source on older Debian/Ubuntu platforms that ship a
crippled Rubygems package. This recipe is included in the
[ruby_from_package](#recipes-ruby-from-package) recipe and will only be used
on Ubuntu 10.04 nodes.

### <a name="recipes-app"></a> app

Installs and configures the Razor codebase and service. This recipe is
included in the [default](#recipes-default) recipe.

## <a name="attributes"></a> Attributes

### <a name="attributes-bind-address"></a> bind_address

IP address to which the Razor web services are bound.

The default is set to `node['ipaddress']`.

### <a name="attributes-mongodb-address"></a> mongodb_address

IP address which has a running MongoDB service.

The default is `"127.0.0.1"`.

### <a name="attributes-checkin-interval"></a> checkin_interval

The micro kernel checkin interval in seconds.

The default is `60`.

### <a name="attributes-ruby-system-packages"></a> ruby_system_packages

An Array of system packages which will install the Ruby runtime. The
defaults are set automatically based on platform and platform_version but
can be overridden in needed.

### <a name="attributes-npm-packages"></a> npm_packages

An Array of npm packages to be installed. The defaults are set automatically
but can be overridden in needed.

### <a name="attributes-install-path"></a> install_path

The install base path of the Razor codebase.

The default is `"/opt/razor"`.

### <a name="attributes-bundle-cmd"></a> bundle_cmd

The bundle command which will be used to install Ruby gems.

The default is `"bundle"` (using `$PATH` lookup).

### <a name="attributes-npm-cmd"></a> npm_cmd

The npm command which will be used to install npm packages.

The default is `"npm"` (using `$PATH` lookup).

### <a name="attributes-app-git-url"></a> app/git_url

The Git URL for the Razor codebase.

The default is `"https://github.com/puppetlabs/Razor.git"`.

### <a name="attributes-app-git-rev"></a> app/git_rev

The Git reference/branch to check out.

The default is `"0.7.0"`. Valid values could be Git SHA hashes, branch names,
and `"master"` for tracking development.

### <a name="attributes-rubygems-source-version"></a> rubygems_source/version

The version of Rubygems to be compiled (when necessary).

The default is `"1.8.24"`.

### <a name="attributes-rubygems-source-url"></a> rubygems_source/url

The URL containing Rubygems source which will be compiled (when necessary).

The default is set based on the Rubygems version attribute above.

## <a name="lwrps"></a> Resources and Providers

### <a name="lwrps-image"></a> razor_image

#### <a name="lwrps-image-actions"></a> Actions

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Action</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Default</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>add</td>
      <td>Add the microkernel or operating system image to razor.</td>
      <td>Yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### <a name="lwrps-image-attributes"></a> Attributes

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Attribute</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Default Value</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>name</td>
      <td>
        <b>Name attribute:</b> The logical name to use for the image.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>type</td>
      <td>
        The type of image. Valid values are <code>"mk"</code> for micro kernel
        images and <code>"os"</code> for operating system images.
      </td>
      <td><code>"os"</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>url</td>
      <td>
        HTTP URL containing the image ISO.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>version</td>
      <td>
        The version to use for <code>"os"</code> images only.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>checksum</td>
      <td>
        An optional SHA-256 checksum for the ISO (for added verification).
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### <a name="lwrps-image-examples"></a> Examples

##### Adding A Micro Kernel Image

    razor_image "rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6" do
      type      "mk"
      url       "http://mirror.example.com/images/rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6.iso"
      checksum  "aljdflkjflajkf..."
      action    :add
    end

    razor_image "rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6" do
      type  "mk"
      url   "http://mirror.example.com/images/rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6.iso"
    end

**Note:** the add action is default, so the second example is a more common
usage.

##### Adding An Operating System Image

    razor_image "precise64" do
      type      "os"
      url       "http://mirror.example.com/images/ubuntu-amd64-12.04.iso"
      checksum  "lkjdfoidadba..."
      version   "12.04"
    end

    razor_image "sl64-6.3" do
      url     "http://mirror.example.com/images/scientific-amd64-6.3.iso"
      version 6.3
    end

**Note:** the default for type is `"os"` so this can be omitted in most cases.
The version attribute can also be a Float.

## <a name="development"></a> Development

* Source hosted at [GitHub][repo]
* Report issues/Questions/Feature requests on [GitHub Issues][issues]

Pull requests are very welcome! Make sure your patches are well tested.
Ideally create a topic branch for every separate change you make.

## <a name="license"></a> License and Author

Author:: [Fletcher Nichol][fnichol] (<fnichol@nichol.ca>)

Copyright 2012, Blue Box Group, LLC

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

[build_essential_cb]: http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/build-essential
[chef_repo]:    https://github.com/opscode/chef-repo
[cheffile]:     https://github.com/applicationsonline/librarian/blob/master/lib/librarian/chef/templates/Cheffile
[git_cb]:       http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/git
[kgc]:          https://github.com/websterclay/knife-github-cookbooks#readme
[librarian]:    https://github.com/applicationsonline/librarian#readme
[mongodb_cb]:   http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/mongodb
[nodejs_cb]:    http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/nodejs
[razor_site]:   https://github.com/puppetlabs/Razor
[tftp_cb]:      http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/tftp

[fnichol]:      https://github.com/fnichol
[repo]:         https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor
[issues]:       https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor/issues

Commit message:

Add recipe[razor::add_images] which consumes images attribute data.

README.md, after:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-razor

## <a name="description"></a> Description

Chef cookbook to install and manage [Razor][razor_site], a power control,
provisioning, and management application designed to deploy both bare-metal
and virtual computer resources. An LWRP is provided to manage OS and
micro kernel images.

## <a name="usage"></a> Usage

Include `recipe[razor]` in your run\_list to install the Razor service and its
dependencies. If you wish to modify or alter the details of the installation
(i.e. using a different mongodb cookbook, installing nodejs from source, etc.),
then compose a custom run\_list of the child recipes described
[below](#recipes).

## <a name="requirements"></a> Requirements

### <a name="requirements-chef"></a> Chef

Tested on 10.12.0 but newer and older version should work just fine. File an
[issue][issues] if this isn't the case.

### <a name="requirements-platform"></a> Platform

The following platforms have been tested with this cookbook, meaning that the
recipes run on these platforms without error:

* ubuntu (10.04/12.04)

### <a name="requirements-cookbooks"></a> Cookbooks

This cookbook depends on the following external cookbooks:

* [build-essential][build_essential_cb]
* [git][git_cb]
* [tftp][tftp_cb]
* [mongodb][mongodb_cb]
* [nodejs][nodejs_cb]

## <a name="installation"></a> Installation

Depending on the situation and use case there are several ways to install
this cookbook. All the methods listed below assume a tagged version release
is the target, but omit the tags to get the head of development. A valid
Chef repository structure like the [Opscode repo][chef_repo] is also assumed.

### <a name="installation-librarian"></a> Using Librarian-Chef

[Librarian-Chef][librarian] is a bundler for your Chef cookbooks.
Include a reference to the cookbook in a [Cheffile][cheffile] and run
`librarian-chef install`. To install Librarian-Chef:

    gem install librarian
    cd chef-repo
    librarian-chef init

To use the Opscode platform version:

    echo "cookbook 'razor'" >> Cheffile
    librarian-chef install

Or to reference the Git version:

    cat >> Cheffile <<END_OF_CHEFFILE
    cookbook 'razor',
      :git => 'git://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor.git', :ref => 'v0.1.0'
    END_OF_CHEFFILE
    librarian-chef install

### <a name="installation-kgc"></a> Using knife-github-cookbooks

The [knife-github-cookbooks][kgc] gem is a plugin for *knife* that supports
installing cookbooks directly from a GitHub repository. To install with the
plugin:

    gem install knife-github-cookbooks
    cd chef-repo
    knife cookbook github install fnichol/chef-razor/v0.1.0

### <a name="installation-gitsubmodule"></a> As a Git Submodule

A common practice (which is getting dated) is to add cookbooks as Git
submodules. This is accomplishes like so:

    cd chef-repo
    git submodule add git://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor.git cookbooks/razor
    git submodule init && git submodule update

**Note:** the head of development will be linked here, not a tagged release.

### <a name="installation-tarball"></a> As a Tarball

If the cookbook needs to downloaded temporarily just to be uploaded to a Chef
Server or Opscode Hosted Chef, then a tarball installation might fit the bill:

    cd chef-repo/cookbooks
    curl -Ls https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor/tarball/v0.1.0 | tar xfz - && \
      mv fnichol-chef-razor-* razor

### <a name="installation-platform"></a> From the Opscode Community Platform

...coming soon...

## <a name="recipes"></a> Recipes

### <a name="recipes-default"></a> default

Installs the full Razor stack with all dependencies.

Most users will want to use this recipe.

### <a name="recipes-tftp"></a> tftp

Installs a tftp server. This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-tftp-files"></a> tftp_files

Installs files and configuration needed for PXE booting and Razor
bootstraping. This recipe is included in the [default](#recipes-default)
recipe.

### <a name="recipes-mongodb"></a> mongodb

Installs a MongoDB server (from packages). This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-nodejs"></a> nodejs

Installs Node.js and npm (from packages). This recipe is included in the
[default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-ruby-from-package"></a> ruby_from_package

Installs Ruby (from system packages) and the Bundler gem. This recipe is
included in the [default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-rubygems-from-source"></a> rubygems_from_source

Installs Rubygems from source on older Debian/Ubuntu platforms that ship a
crippled Rubygems package. This recipe is included in the
[ruby_from_package](#recipes-ruby-from-package) recipe and will only be used
on Ubuntu 10.04 nodes.

### <a name="recipes-app"></a> app

Installs and configures the Razor codebase and service. This recipe is
included in the [default](#recipes-default) recipe.

### <a name="recipes-add-images"></a> add_images

Installs images in the Razor service (driven off the `images` attribute). This
recipe is included in the [default](#recipes-default) recipe.

## <a name="attributes"></a> Attributes

### <a name="attributes-bind-address"></a> bind_address

IP address to which the Razor web services are bound.

The default is set to `node['ipaddress']`.

### <a name="attributes-mongodb-address"></a> mongodb_address

IP address which has a running MongoDB service.

The default is `"127.0.0.1"`.

### <a name="attributes-checkin-interval"></a> checkin_interval

The micro kernel checkin interval in seconds.

The default is `60`.

### <a name="attributes-images"></a> images

A Hash of Razor images to be added. The hash key will correspond to the image
`name` attribute and the value will be a hash of other attributes to be fed
to the [razor_image](#lwrps-image) LWRP. For example:

    node['razor']['images'] = {
      'razor-mk' => {
        'type'    => 'mk',
        'url'     => 'http://fdqn.com/razor-mk.iso',
        'action'  => 'add'
      },
      'precise64' => {
        'url'       => 'http://example.com/precise64.iso',
        'checksum'  => 'abcabc...',
        'version'   => '12.04'
      }
    }

The default is an empty hash: `Hash.new`.

### <a name="attributes-ruby-system-packages"></a> ruby_system_packages

An Array of system packages which will install the Ruby runtime. The
defaults are set automatically based on platform and platform_version but
can be overridden in needed.

### <a name="attributes-npm-packages"></a> npm_packages

An Array of npm packages to be installed. The defaults are set automatically
but can be overridden in needed.

### <a name="attributes-install-path"></a> install_path

The install base path of the Razor codebase.

The default is `"/opt/razor"`.

### <a name="attributes-bundle-cmd"></a> bundle_cmd

The bundle command which will be used to install Ruby gems.

The default is `"bundle"` (using `$PATH` lookup).

### <a name="attributes-npm-cmd"></a> npm_cmd

The npm command which will be used to install npm packages.

The default is `"npm"` (using `$PATH` lookup).

### <a name="attributes-app-git-url"></a> app/git_url

The Git URL for the Razor codebase.

The default is `"https://github.com/puppetlabs/Razor.git"`.

### <a name="attributes-app-git-rev"></a> app/git_rev

The Git reference/branch to check out.

The default is `"0.7.0"`. Valid values could be Git SHA hashes, branch names,
and `"master"` for tracking development.

### <a name="attributes-rubygems-source-version"></a> rubygems_source/version

The version of Rubygems to be compiled (when necessary).

The default is `"1.8.24"`.

### <a name="attributes-rubygems-source-url"></a> rubygems_source/url

The URL containing Rubygems source which will be compiled (when necessary).

The default is set based on the Rubygems version attribute above.

## <a name="lwrps"></a> Resources and Providers

### <a name="lwrps-image"></a> razor_image

#### <a name="lwrps-image-actions"></a> Actions

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Action</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Default</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>add</td>
      <td>Add the microkernel or operating system image to razor.</td>
      <td>Yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### <a name="lwrps-image-attributes"></a> Attributes

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Attribute</th>
      <th>Description</th>
      <th>Default Value</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>name</td>
      <td>
        <b>Name attribute:</b> The logical name to use for the image.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>type</td>
      <td>
        The type of image. Valid values are <code>"mk"</code> for micro kernel
        images and <code>"os"</code> for operating system images.
      </td>
      <td><code>"os"</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>url</td>
      <td>
        HTTP URL containing the image ISO.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>version</td>
      <td>
        The version to use for <code>"os"</code> images only.
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>checksum</td>
      <td>
        An optional SHA-256 checksum for the ISO (for added verification).
      </td>
      <td><code>nil</code></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### <a name="lwrps-image-examples"></a> Examples

##### Adding A Micro Kernel Image

    razor_image "rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6" do
      type      "mk"
      url       "http://mirror.example.com/images/rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6.iso"
      checksum  "aljdflkjflajkf..."
      action    :add
    end

    razor_image "rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6" do
      type  "mk"
      url   "http://mirror.example.com/images/rz_mk_prod-image.0.9.1.6.iso"
    end

**Note:** the add action is default, so the second example is a more common
usage.

##### Adding An Operating System Image

    razor_image "precise64" do
      type      "os"
      url       "http://mirror.example.com/images/ubuntu-amd64-12.04.iso"
      checksum  "lkjdfoidadba..."
      version   "12.04"
    end

    razor_image "sl64-6.3" do
      url     "http://mirror.example.com/images/scientific-amd64-6.3.iso"
      version 6.3
    end

**Note:** the default for type is `"os"` so this can be omitted in most cases.
The version attribute can also be a Float.

## <a name="development"></a> Development

* Source hosted at [GitHub][repo]
* Report issues/Questions/Feature requests on [GitHub Issues][issues]

Pull requests are very welcome! Make sure your patches are well tested.
Ideally create a topic branch for every separate change you make.

## <a name="license"></a> License and Author

Author:: [Fletcher Nichol][fnichol] (<fnichol@nichol.ca>)

Copyright 2012, Blue Box Group, LLC

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

[build_essential_cb]: http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/build-essential
[chef_repo]:    https://github.com/opscode/chef-repo
[cheffile]:     https://github.com/applicationsonline/librarian/blob/master/lib/librarian/chef/templates/Cheffile
[git_cb]:       http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/git
[kgc]:          https://github.com/websterclay/knife-github-cookbooks#readme
[librarian]:    https://github.com/applicationsonline/librarian#readme
[mongodb_cb]:   http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/mongodb
[nodejs_cb]:    http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/nodejs
[razor_site]:   https://github.com/puppetlabs/Razor
[tftp_cb]:      http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/tftp

[fnichol]:      https://github.com/fnichol
[repo]:         https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor
[issues]:       https://github.com/fnichol/chef-razor/issues
